# General Authentication Related Information

`Reading time 14 min`

## API Authentication Options
API authentication is the process of verifying that a user or application is authorized to access an API. There are many different API authentication options available, each with its own strengths and weaknesses. The APIsec platform provides a flexible mechanism to enable customers to authenticate to a large variety of APIs, regardless of the chosen implementation.

### API Keys
API keys are secret tokens that are used to identify an application and grant it access to an API. They are typically generated by the API provider and given to the application developer. API keys are simple to use and implement, but they are also vulnerable to theft, as anyone who has the key can access the API.

### OAuth 2.0
OAuth 2.0 is an authorization framework that enables applications to obtain limited access to user accounts. It works by delegating user authentication to the service that hosts the user account, and authorizing third-party applications to access the user account. OAuth 2.0 is a popular option and the configuration settings look like this:



### HTTP Authentication Schemes
HTTP authentication schemes are a set of protocols for authenticating users to web servers. There are two main HTTP authentication schemes: Basic and Bearer.

#### Basic authentication is the most basic form of HTTP authentication. It sends the user's username and password in plain text over the network. APIsec configuration looks like this:



#### Bearer authentication is a more secure form of HTTP authentication. It uses an access token to authenticate the user. The access token is a string of characters that is generated by the API provider and given to the application developer. The application then includes the access token in the Authorization header of each API request. APIsec configuration looks like this:



#### JWT Authentication (JSON Web Token)
JWT authentication is a popular way to authenticate users and applications. It uses JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) to represent the user's identity and authorization claims. JWTs are signed by the API provider, which ensures that they are tamper-proof. JWTs are also self-contained, which means that they can be verified without making a request to the API provider. APIsec configuration looks like this:



## Authentication Troubleshooting
